README.md, before:

# my_remote

my_remote is a universal remote hub running on a Raspberry PI.  It translates keyboard presses into commands for remote controlled devices.  It's goal is to provide a single way for controlling remote controlled devices via a remote control.

## Progress

| Feature           | Progress           |
| ----------------- | ------------------ |
| IR Support        | Working            |
| Bluetooth Support | Not Working        |
| ADB Support       | Working (slow)     |
| curl              | Working (untested) |
| app calls         | Not Working        |

## Installation

my_remote runs on a [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/) with an [IR interface](https://www.crowdsupply.com/anavi-technology/infrared-phat).

### Quick install

ssh to the raspberry pi and run the below.  This has only been tested on a newly flashed Raspberry Pi 4 with Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-bit)(03-04-2021).

```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote/main/setup_pi4.sh | bash
```

This will update the system, install the needed packages, lirc, and other miscellaneous actions.

### Long Install

If you don't feel safe just randomly running a script from the Internet:

1. [Boot a Raspberry Pi with the `Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-bit)` image](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/). Tested version is 03-04-2021.
    * Make sure to enable ssh as a directly connected keyboard could be captured by my_remote.
1. Insert the SD card into the raspberry pi and power it up.
1. Connect to the pi with ssh.
1. Update the pi and install git.
    * `sudo apt update; sudo apt -y upgrade; sudo apt install -y git`
1. Clone the repo.
    * `git clone https://github.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote.git`
1. Change into the local directory
    * `cd my_remote`
1. Run the setup.  The pi will reboot after the script has finished.
    * `sh setup_pi4.sh`
1. ssh back into the pi
1. cd into the my_remote directory and run main.sh
    * `cd my_remote; bash main.sh`

my_remote will start and listen for keystrokes from a directly connected keyboard.  Depending on the keystroke, my_remote will take different actions.  When first booted, it will load the `json/common.json` file.

## Design

![Architecture Diagram](documentation/MR_Diagram.png)

my_remote takes input from a keyboard or an HID remote and converts it into an appropriate format.  my_remote uses json files to it's current state. Each state defines the actions that my_remote takes when an HID button is pressed.  The format of these json files is documented [here](documentation/json_format.md).

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. Help with enabling the Raspberry Pi as a functional bluetooth HID to an android device (think Nvidia Shield) is greatly appreciated.  For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## Links

* https://github.com/AnaviTechnology/anavi-docs/blob/master/anavi-infrared-phat/anavi-infrared-phat.md
* https://globalcache.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034968311-iConvert-Converting-IR-code-formats
* https://www.instructables.com/Transforming-Raspberry-Pi-Into-a-Remote-Control/
* https://projects-raspberry.com/emulate-a-bluetooth-keyboard-with-the-raspberry-pi/
* https://remotesource.net/full-remote-catalog/
* https://github.com/boppreh/keyboard
* https://flirc.tv/more/flirc-usb
* https://github.com/ruundii/bthidhub
* https://github.com/quangthanh010290/keyboard_mouse_emulate_on_raspberry
* https://www.lirc.org
* https://www.raspberrypi.org/
* https://www.crowdsupply.com/anavi-technology/infrared-phat
* https://github.com/AnaviTechnology/anavi-docs/blob/master/anavi-infrared-phat/anavi-infrared-phat.md
* https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005001714763038.html
* https://github.com/mtlynch/key-mime-pi

## License

[See LICENSE](https://github.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Migrate away from class (#9)
* initial pass...not tested

* missed checkins

* use scancode instead of code

* misc fixes

* linting

* add missing pip packages

* Enable IR functionality

* Add prep and notes on development

* Minor update

* tweaks

* pylinting

README.md, after:

# my_remote

my_remote is a universal remote hub running on a Raspberry PI.  It translates keyboard presses into commands for remote controlled devices.  It's goal is to provide a single way for controlling remote controlled devices via a remote control.

## Progress

| Feature           | Progress           |
| ----------------- | ------------------ |
| IR Support        | Working            |
| Bluetooth Support | Not Working        |
| ADB Support       | Working (slow)     |
| curl              | Working (untested) |
| app calls         | Not Working        |

## Installation

my_remote runs on a [Raspberry Pi](https://www.raspberrypi.org/) with an [IR interface](https://www.crowdsupply.com/anavi-technology/infrared-phat).

### Quick install

ssh to the raspberry pi and run the below.  This has only been tested on a newly flashed Raspberry Pi 4 with Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-bit)(03-04-2021).

```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote/main/setup_pi4.sh | bash
```

This will update the system, install the needed packages, lirc, and other miscellaneous actions.

### Long Install

If you don't feel safe just randomly running a script from the Internet:

1. [Boot a Raspberry Pi with the `Raspberry Pi OS Lite (32-bit)` image](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/installing-images/). Tested version is 03-04-2021.
    * Make sure to enable ssh as a directly connected keyboard could be captured by my_remote.
1. Insert the SD card into the raspberry pi and power it up.
1. Connect to the pi with ssh.
1. Update the pi and install git.
    * `sudo apt update; sudo apt -y upgrade; sudo apt install -y git`
1. Clone the repo.
    * `git clone https://github.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote.git`
1. Change into the local directory
    * `cd my_remote`
1. Run the setup.  The pi will reboot after the script has finished.
    * `sh setup_pi4.sh`
1. ssh back into the pi
1. cd into the my_remote directory and run main.sh
    * `cd my_remote; bash main.sh`

my_remote will start and listen for keystrokes from a directly connected keyboard.  Depending on the keystroke, my_remote will take different actions.  When first booted, it will load the `json/common.json` file.

## Design

![Architecture Diagram](documentation/MR_Diagram.png)

my_remote takes input from a keyboard or an HID remote and converts it into an appropriate format.  my_remote uses json files to it's current state. Each state defines the actions that my_remote takes when an HID button is pressed.  The format of these json files is documented [here](documentation/json_format.md).

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. Help with enabling the Raspberry Pi as a functional bluetooth HID to an android device (think Nvidia Shield or Apple TV) is greatly appreciated.  For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

The code is written with VSCode in mind. It has a configuration set up in the .vscode directory that allows for debugging. To do development, take the following steps:

1. Run the prep command: `./prep`. This will:
    1. Create a virtual environment
    1. Install the requirement.txt into the venv
    1. Install pre-commit pre-commit hook
1. Activate the virtual env for your development: `source venv/bin/activate`

Please ensure that any PRs pass pre-commit.

## Links

* https://github.com/AnaviTechnology/anavi-docs/blob/master/anavi-infrared-phat/anavi-infrared-phat.md
* https://globalcache.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/360034968311-iConvert-Converting-IR-code-formats
* https://www.instructables.com/Transforming-Raspberry-Pi-Into-a-Remote-Control/
* https://projects-raspberry.com/emulate-a-bluetooth-keyboard-with-the-raspberry-pi/
* https://remotesource.net/full-remote-catalog/
* https://github.com/boppreh/keyboard
* https://flirc.tv/more/flirc-usb
* https://github.com/ruundii/bthidhub
* https://github.com/quangthanh010290/keyboard_mouse_emulate_on_raspberry
* https://www.lirc.org
* https://www.raspberrypi.org/
* https://www.crowdsupply.com/anavi-technology/infrared-phat
* https://github.com/AnaviTechnology/anavi-docs/blob/master/anavi-infrared-phat/anavi-infrared-phat.md
* https://www.aliexpress.com/item/1005001714763038.html
* https://github.com/mtlynch/key-mime-pi

## License

[See LICENSE](https://github.com/benjaminmetzler/my_remote/blob/main/LICENSE)
